Optimism bridge (#304)
bgd-labs/aave-helpers: src/bridges/optimism/README.md

# Aave Optimism -> Mainnet ERC20 Bridge

> Currently there is no easy way for the Collector on Optimism to withdraw funds via bridging to Ethereum mainnet. An upgrade to the Collector to be made to bridge directly, however, with this approach, we can assign a Guardian the role to bridge as is done with other networks such as Polygon and Arbitrum.

Reviewer: a link to optimism bridge docs could be useful on readme i think

Author: added

# Aave Optimism -> Mainnet ERC20 Bridge

Currently there is no easy way for the Collector on Optimism to withdraw funds via bridging to Ethereum mainnet. An upgrade to the Collector to be made to bridge directly, however, with this approach, we can assign a Guardian the role to bridge as is done with other networks such as Polygon and Arbitrum.

The official Optimism documentation can be found [here](https://docs.optimism.io/builders/app-developers/bridging/standard-bridge).

## Functions

`function bridge(address token, address l1Token, uint256 amount) external onlyOwner`

Callable on Optimism. Withdraws an ERC20 from Optimism to Mainnet. The ERC20 token must be an OptimismBurnableERC20 in order to be bridged.
The first parameter is the token's address on Optimism, while the second one is the token's equivalent address on Mainnet (ie: USDC.e on Optimism and USDC on Mainnet). The last parameter is the amount of tokens to bridge.

`function emergencyTokenTransfer(address erc20Token, address to, uint256 amount) external;`

> Callable on Optimism. Withdraws tokens from bridge contract back to Aave Collector on Optimism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Callable on Optimism. In case of emergency can be called by the owner to withdraw tokens from bridge contract back to any address on Optimism.
```
As I think we can withdraw tokens to any address not just the collector in this case.

Author: well, i have it hardcoded to be the collector only

Reviewer 2: @efecarranza but as `Rescuable` contract is inherited and the virtual function `emergencyTokenTransfer` is not being overridden it can withdraw to any address no not only collector? or perhaps i'm missing something

Author: oh, sorry, misread

## Finalizing

[The CLI can be found here](https://github.com/TokenLogic-com-au/aave-cli-tools).

Just like when proving the message, there's a command in order to finalize the bridge.

`yarn start optimism-finalize-bridge <TX_HASH> <INDEX>` where TX_HASH is the transaction hash where the bridge took place and INDEX is the index of the ERC20 token in terms of how many tokens were bridged in the same transaction. For just one token, INDEX will be 0. For multiple, start from 0 and go up by one.

## Transactions

| Token  | Bridge                                                                                                     | Prove                                                                    | Finalize                                                                                        |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | USDC.e | [Tx](https://optimistic.etherscan.io/tx/0xa3f71476258d6204471c51f5caf77f0a82222e8fca66f1e0f76fa83744924cf0 | [Tx](0xf9a44f58bac1bee523f8005d0170681deacda3c4a1a48d794e8701525f272a9c) | [Tx](https://etherscan.io/tx/0x6fd6177120755ddc3ce896c60e4a861c3a06196d26f385de13b470750651a6a1 |

Reviewer 2: @efecarranza Broken link for the Prove Tx

Author: done
